Mr. President,
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am grateful to the Almighty Allah who granted me, once more, the
opportunity to appear before this world assembly. I have the pleasure to express my
sincere thanks to H.E. Joseph Deiss, president of the sixty-fifth session for his
tremendous efforts during his tenure. I also would like to congratulate H.E Nassir
Abdulaziz AI-Nasser on his election as the president of sixty-sixth session of the
General Assembly and wish him all success.
Let me seize the moment to pay tribute to all those who lost their lives in the
past year, particularly to the victims of the tragic famine in Somalia and the
devastating flood in Pakistan and especially the earthquake and the ensuing
explosions in the nuclear power plant in Japan. I urge everyone to intensify their
assistance and aid to the affected populations in these countries.
Over the past years, I spoke about different global issues, and the need to
introduce fundamental changes in the current international order.
Today, considering the international developments, I will try to analyze the
present situation from a different angle.
As you all know the dominance and superiority of human beings over other
creatures, lie in the very nature and the truth of humankind which is a divine
gift and a manifestation of the divine spirit including:
faith in God, who is the ever-lasting creator and planner of the entire universe.
Showing compassion to others, generosity, justice-seeking, and having
integrity both in words and in deeds.
The quest for dignity to reach the pinnacles of perfection, the aspiration to
elevate one's material and spiritual status, and the longing to realize liberty;
Defying oppression, corruption, and discrimination in trying to support the
oppressed;
Seeking happiness, and lasting prosperity and security for all;
These are some of the manifestations of common divine and human attributes
which can clearly be seen in the historical aspirations of human beings as
reflected in the heritage of our search for art and literary works both in prose
and poetry, and in the socio-cultural and political movements of human beings
in the course of history;
All divine prophets and social reformers invited human beings to tread on this
righteous path;
God has given dignity to humankind to elevate his status to assume his
successor role on Earth;
Dear Colleagues and friends;
It is vividly clear that despite all historical achievements, including creation of
the United-Nations, which was a product of untiring struggles and efforts of
free-minded and justice-seeking individuals as well as the international
cooperation, human societies are yet far from fulfilling their noble desires and
aspirations;
Most nations of the world are unhappy with the current international
circumstances; 
And despite the general longing and aspiration to promote peace, progress, and
fraternity, wars, mass-murder, widespread poverty, and socioeconomic and
political crises continue to infringe upon the rights and sovereignty of nations,
leaving behind irreparable damage worldwide;
Approximately, three billion people of the world live on less than 2.5 dollars a
day, and over a billion people live without having even one sufficient meal on
a daily basis;
Forty-percent of the poorest world populations only share five percent of the
global income, while twenty percent of the richest people share seventy-five
percent of the total global income.
More than twenty thousand innocent and destitute children die every day in
the world because of poverty.
In the United States, eighty percent of financial resources are controlled by ten
percent of its population, while only twenty percent of these resources belong
to the ninety percent of the popUlation.
What are the causes and reasons behind these inequalities? How can bone
remedy such injustice?
The rulers of the global management circles divide the social life from ethics
and spirituality while claiming the situation is the outcome of the pursuit of the
path of divine prophets or the vulnerability of nations or the ill performance of
a few groups or individuals. They claim that only their views and approaches
can save the human society.
Dear Colleagues and friends;
Wouldn't you think that the root cause of the problems must be sought in the
prevailing international order, or the way the world is governed?
I would like to draw your kind attention to the following questions:
Who abducted forcefully tens of millions of people from their homes in
Africa and other regions of the world during the dark period of slavery ,
making them a victim of their materialistic greed.
Who imposed colonialism for over four centuries upon this world. Who
occupied lands and massively plundered resources of other nations, destroyed
talents, and alienated languages, cultures and identities of nations?
Who triggered the first and second world wars, that left seventy millions killed
and hundreds of millions injured or homeless. Who created the wars in Korean
peninsula and in Vietnam?
Who imposed, through deceits and hypocrisy, the Zionism and over sixty
years of war, homelessness, terror and mass murder on the Palestinian people
and on countries of the region?
Who imposed and supported for decades military dictatorship and totalitarian
regimes on Asian, African, and Latin American nations.
Who used nuclear bomb against defenseless people, and stockpiled thousands
of warheads in their arsenals?
Whose economies rely on waging wars and selling arms?
Who provoked and encouraged Saddam Hussein to invade and impose an
eight-year war on Iran, and who assisted and equipped him to deploy chemical
weapons against our cities and our people.
Who used the mysterious September 11 incident as a pretext to attack
Afghanistan and Iraq , killing, injuring, and displacing millions in two
countries with the ultimate goal of bringing into its domination the Middle
East and its oil resources?
Who nullified the Breton Woods system by printing trillions of dollars without
the backing of gold reserves or equivalent currency? A move that triggered
inflation worldwide and was intended to prey on the economic gains of other
nations.
Which country's military spending exceeds annually a thousand billion
dollars, more than the military budgets of all countries of the world combined?
Which governments are the most indebted ones in the world?
Who dominates the policy-making establishments of the world economy?
Who are responsible for the world economic recession, and are imposing the
consequences on America, Europe and the world in general?
Which governments are always ready to drop thousands of bombs on other
countries, but ponder and hesitate to provide aid to famine-stricken people in
Somalia or in other places?
Who are the ones dominating the Security Council which is ostensibly
responsible for safeguarding the international security?
There exist tens of other similar questions. Of course, the answers are clear.
The majority of nations and governments of the world have had no role in the
creation of the current global crises, and as a matter of fact, they were
themselves the victims of such policies.
It is as lucid as daylight that the same slave masters and colonial powers that
once instigated the two world wars have caused widespread misery and
disorder with far-reaching effects across the globe since then.
Dear Colleagues and Friends;
Do these arrogant powers really have the competence and ability to run or
govern the world. Is it acceptable that they call themselves the sole defender of
freedom, democracy, and human rights, while they militarily attack and
occupy other countries?
Can the flower of democracy blossom from NATO's missiles, bombs and
guns?
Ladies and Gentlemen;
If some European countries still use the Holocaust, after six decades, as the
excuse to pay fine or ransom to the Zionists, should it not be an obligation
upon the slave masters or colonial powers to pay reparations to the affected
nations?
If the damage and losses of the period of slavery and colonialism were indeed
compensated, what would happen to the manipulators and behind-the-scene
political powers in the United States and in Europe? Would there remain any
gaps between the North and the South?
If only half of military expenditures of the United States and its allies in
NATO was shifted to help solve the economic problems in their own
countries, would they be witnessing any symptom of the economic crisis?
What would happen, if the same amount was allocated to poor nations?
What is the justification for the presence of hundreds of US military and
intelligence bases in different parts of the world, including 268 bases in
Germany, 124 in Japan, 87 in South Korea, 83 in Italy, 45 in the UnitedKingdom, and 21 in Portugal? Does this mean anything other than military
occupation?
Don't the bombs deployed in the said bases undermine the security of other
nations?
Ladies and Gentlemen;
The main question is the quest for the root cause of such attitudes.
The prime reason should be sought in the beliefs and tendencies of the
establishment.
An assembly of people in contradiction with the inner human instincts and
disposition who also have no faith in God and in the path of the divine
prophets, replace their lust for power and materialistic ends with heavenly
values.
To them, only power and wealth prevail, and every attempt must bring into
focus these sinister goals.
Oppressed nations have no hope to restore or protect their legitimate rights
against these powers.
These powers seek their progress, prosperity and dignity through imposing
poverty, humiliation and annihilation to others.
They consider themselves superior to others, enjoying special privileges and
concessions. They have no respect for others and easily violate the rights of .
all nations and govermnents.
They proclaim themselves as the indisputable custodians of all govermnents
and nations through intimidation, recourse to threat and force, and abuse the
international mechanisms. They simply break all the internationally
recognized regulations.
They insist on imposing their lifestyle and beliefs on others.
They officially support racism.
They weaken countries through military intervention, and destroy their
infrastructures, in order to plunder their resources by making them all the more
dependent.
They sow the seeds of hate and hostility among nations and people of different
pursuits, in order to prevent them from fulfilling their goals of development
and progress.
All cultures, identities, lives, values and wealth of nations, women, youth,
families as well as the wealth of nations are sacrificed to their imperialistic
tendencies and their inclination to enslave and captivate others.
Hypocrisy and deceit are allowed in order to secure their interests and
imperialistic goals. Drug- trafficking and killing of innocent human beings are
also allowed in pursuit of such diabolic goals. Despite NATO's presence in the
occupied Afghanistan, there has been a dramatic increase in the production of
illicit drugs there.
They tolerate no question or criticism, and instead of presenting a reason for
their violations, they always put themselves in the position of a claimant.
By using their imperialistic media network which is under the influence of
colonialism they threaten anyone who questions the Holocaust and the
September 11 event with sanctions and military action.
Last year, when the need to form a fact-finding team to undertake a thorough
investigation concerning the hidden elements involved in September 11
incident was brought up; an idea also endorsed by all independent
governments and nations as well as by the majority in the United States, my
country and myself came under pressure and threat by the government of the
United States.
Instead of assigning a fact-finding team, they killed the main perpetrator and
threw his body into the sea.
Would it not have been reasonable to bring to justice and openly bring to trial
the main perpetrator of the incident in order to identifY the elements behind the
safe space provided for the invading aircraft to attack the twin world trade
towers?
Why should it not have been allowed to bring him to trial to help recognize
those who launched terrorist groups and brought wars and other miseries into
the region?
Is there any classified information that must be kept secret?
They view Zionism as a sacred notion and ideology. Any question concerning
its very foundation and history is condemned by them as an unforgivable sin.
However they endorse and allow sacrileges and insult against beliefs of other
divine religions.
Dear Colleagues and Friends;
Real freedom, justice" dignity, well being, and lasting security are the rights
of all nations.
These values can neither be achieved by reliance on the current inefficient
system of world governance, nor through the invasion of the world by arrogant
powers and the gun barrels of NATO forces.
These values could only be realized through independence and recognition of
others' rights and through harmony and cooperation.
Is there any way to address the problems and challenges besetting the world by
using the prevailing international mechanisms and tools to help humanity
achieve the long-standing aspiration of peace, security and equality?
All those who tried to introduce reforms whilst preserving the existing norms
and tendencies have failed. The valuable efforts made by the Non-Aligned
movement and Group 77 and GrouplS as well as by some prominent
individuals have failed to bring fundamental changes.
Governance and management of the world require fundamental reforms.
What should be done now?
Dear Colleagnes and Friends;
Efforts must be made with a firm resolve and through collective cooperation to
map out a new plan, on the basis of principles and the very foundation of
universal human values such as Monotheism, justice, freedom, love and the
quest for happiness.
The idea of creation of the United Nations remains a great and historical
achievement of mankind. Its importance must be appreciated and its capacities
must be used to the extent possible for our noble goals.
We should not allow this organization which is the reflection of the collective
will and shared aspiration of the community of nations, to deviate from its
main course and play into the hands of the world powers.
Conducive ground must be prepared to ensure collective participation and
involvement of nations in an effort to promote lasting peace and security.
Shared and collective management of the world must be achieved in its true
sense, and based on the underlying principles enshrined in the international
law. Justice must serve as the criterion and the basis for all international
decisions and actions.
- All of us should acknowledge the fact that there is no other way than the shared
and collective management of the world in order to put an end to the present
disorders, tyrarmy, and discriminations worldwide.
This is indeed the sole way to prosperity and welfare of human society which
is an established and vivid truth.
While acknowledging the above truth, one should note that acknowledgement
alone is not enough. We must believe in it and spare no effort toward its
realization.
Dear Colleagues and Friends;
Shared and collective management of the world is the legitimate right of all
nations, and we as their representatives, have an obligation to defend their
rights. Although some powers continuously try to frustrate all international
efforts aimed at promoting collective cooperation, we must, however,
strengthen our belief in achieving the perceived goal of establishing a shared
and collective cooperation to run the world.
The United Nations was created to make effective participation of all nations
in international decision-making processes, possible.
We all know that this goal has not yet been fulfilled because of the absence of
justice in the current management structures and mechanisms of the UN.
The composition of the Security Council is unjust and inequitable. Therefore,
changes including the restructuring of the United Nations are considered the
basic demands of the nations that must be addressed by the General
Assembly.
During last year session, I emphasized the importance of this issue and called
for the designation of the current decade as the decade of shared and collective
Global Management.
I would like to reiterate again my proposal. I am sure that through
international cooperation, diligence and efforts by committed world leaders
and governments and through insisting on the realization of justice and the
support of all other nations, we can expedite the building of a common bright
future.
This movement is certainly on its rightful path of creation, ensuring a
promising future for humanity.
A future that will be built when humanity initiates to trend the path of the
divine prophets and the righteous under the leadership of Imam al-Mahdi, the
Ultimate Savior of mankind and the inheritor to all divine messengers and
leaders and to the pure generation of our great Prophet.
The creation of a supreme and ideal society with the arrival of a perfect human
being who is a true and sincere lover of all human beings, is the guaranteed
promise of Allah.
He will come alongside with Jesus Christ to lead the freedom and justice
lovers to eradicate tyranny and discrimination, and promote knowledge, peace,
justice freedom and love across the world. He will present to every single
individual all the beauties of the world and all good things which bring
happiness for humankind.
Today nations have been awakened. With the increase in public awareness,
they no longer succumb to oppressions and discriminations.
The world is now witnessing more than ever, the widespread awakening in
Islamic lands, in Asia, Europe, and America. These movements are ever
expanding their spirit everyday and influence the pursuit of the realization of
justice, freedom and the creation of a better tomorrow.
Our great nation stands ready to join hands with other nations to march on this
beautiful path in harmony and in line with the shared aspirations of mankind.
Let us salute love, freedom, justice, wisdom, and the bright future that awaits
humankind.
Thank you.