I was thinking on the way down in the elevator: tomorrow will be the first time in my life I don't have anything to do.

But I wanted to come down and thank all of you. You've done a great job, and I'm very proud of Trent. We're going to keep the Senate. We're going to keep the House.

Thank you. Thank you very much.

Let me say that I've talked to President Clinton. We had a good visit, and I congratulated him. . . .I've said repeatedly in this campaign that the President was my opponent and not my enemy. And I wish him well, and I pledge my support in whatever advances the cause of a better America because that's what the race was about in the first place, a better America as we go into the next century.

And I'm very proud also of my teammate, Jack Kemp. I've talked to Jack, and I thank Jack Kemp. And I want to thank not only Jack but his wife, Joanne, who did an outstanding job and all the Kemp family for the work they did in this campaign.

And, obviously, I want to thank two outstanding women: my daughter, Robin, who did a great job, and, of course, my wife, Elizabeth, who's traveled this country from one end to the other.

In fact, they've both been with me in this 96-hour marathon. And we had a great time. We had great crowds and a lot of enthusiasm. At 3:00 this morning, I guess it was, we were in Independence, Mo., and I never saw so many people in one place so excited about the Republican Party.

And let me say a special word, let me say a special word to all the young Americans and the young people who were involved in my campaign. You have been a constant source of inspiration for Elizabeth and myself, and I might add, you're not going to get that tax cut if you don't be quiet.

And I would say to the young people and all the others involved, it's a lot more fun winning. It hurts to lose an election. But stay involved and keep fighting the good fight because because you are the ones who will make the 21st century the next American century.

And I don't want anybody, I don't want anybody to pass out here, but I also want to thank all the media that traveled with me on the plane and all my friends. . . .

All of my friends, and we have many friends in the media, and they were there every day, every night, every day and every night as we flew around this country. And we met hundreds and thousands and thousands of good people all across America who want a better America and will continue to working for a better America.

And as I looked around tonight as I came in, I saw a lot of very special people who have been helping me for the last 10, 15, 20, 25 years. And I say thank you for all you've done because I know your support, because I know that because of your support, I am still the most optimistic man in America.

And I know that. And I know that thousands of you, thousands of you have worked day and night, thousands of you have worked day and night, and millions of you trusted Jack Kemp and me with your vote, and for that we will always be grateful. And I say thank you very much.

And I would say Haley, you've done an outstanding job. We appreciate it very much. And we've had our co-chairman flying around with us. You've done a great job. . . .

And I want to say to my campaign staff, to Scott and to Jill and to Joanne and everyone else. I could not have had a better, more faithful, more loyal team. And I want to thank everybody, and we'll have an opportunity to do that if ----

It's been a long time since I entered politics way back in 1951 and a lot of things have happened since that time, but some things never change.

A few days after I took my seat in the State Legislature, a reporter asked me what I had on my agenda. I said, Well I'm going to sit back and watch for a few days and then I'll stand up for what I think is right. And any of you who wonder what my plans may be in the future, I'm going to sit back for a few days, then I'm going to start standing up for what I think is right for America and right for you.

So, I leave you all tonight with a full heart and a fervent prayer that we will meet again and we will meet often in this land, where miracles are always happening, where every day is a new beginning and every life a blessing from God.

So I want to say thanks to each one of you here. Thank you for all you've done and all you will do in the future for America. Thank you very much, and God bless America.